Program 6
Due Dec 1 by 11:59pm Points 100 Submitting a file upload Available after Nov 18 at 12am
Program 6: Lists and Dictionaries

Parts 1 and 2 should be separate programs.

Part 1

Write a program that accepts as input eight numbers from the keyboard and stores them in a list. Include sensible prompts so that the user knows what to do.

Your program should then:

On a single line, display the numbers with four spaces in between each number. Do not display brackets or commas.
On a single line, display the numbers in reverse order with four spaces in between each number. Do not display brackets or commas.
Display the sum of the numbers, with explanatory text. Limit the output to two decimal places.
Display the average of the numbers, with explanatory text. Limit the output to two decimal places.
On a single line, display each number that is higher than the calculated average with ten spaces between each number. 
Do not hard code any number literals in your print statements! 

Do not use my numbers. Choose your own!

Extra credit will be awarded for programs that utilize modular design (i.e. functions).

 

Sample output:

2.0    19.4    -11.2    7.3    0    -11.1    119.9    -42.7

-42.7    119.9    -11.1    0    7.3    -11.2    19.4    2.0

The sum of the numbers is 83.60

The average of the numbers is 10.45

These numbers are above average:          19.4          119.9    
 

Part 2

Create a dictionary with at least five key-value pairs. Use strings for either the keys, the values, or both.
On a single line, display your dictionary's keys and values, with a comma between each pair.
 

Modify one of the values in your dictionary.
On a single line, display your dictionary's keys and values, with a comma between each pair.
 

Delete one of the key-value pairs from your dictionary.
On a single line, display your dictionary's keys and values, with a comma between each pair.
 

Print a blank line.
Display your dictionary's keys, one per line. 
Print a blank line.
Display your dictionary's values, one per line.
 

Do not print curly braces, quotation marks, or colons.

Do not hard code anything in your print statements! 

Do not use my key-value pairs. Choose your own!

For extra credit, do not print the trailing (final) comma on each of the first three lines of output.

 

Sample output:

Buffalo Sabres, Toronto Maple Leafs, Boston Bruins, Ottawa Senators, Montreal Canadiens, 
Buffalo Sabres, Toronto Maple Leaves, Boston Bruins, Ottawa Senators, Montreal Canadiens, 
Buffalo Sabres, Toronto Maple Leaves, Boston Bruins, Montreal Canadiens, 

Buffalo
Toronto
Boston
Montreal

Sabres
Maple Leaves
Bruins
Canadiens
 

Please submit:

plain text files containing your source code (must be .py extensions!)
images showing your programs running on your workstation
